So here's something that almost feels like an urban legend but turns out to be true,

which is that when CSS was originally designed, when the language was created,

they weren't imagining people using it for layouts. They imagined that people would keep

using tables in HTML for layout, and they would use CSS for cosmetic things like colors.

And it took a long time for the language to catch up to how people were using it,

and Flexbox, which is what this module is about, was the first intentional part of the language to

deal with layouts. It's a different layout mode, so it's comparable to positioned layout that we

saw previously and flow layout, which is the default. And the core idea with Flexbox is that

it's a way to control the distribution of space along a single axis. So you have a bunch of items,

maybe you want to have them in a single row. Flexbox lets you control how they're spaced,

which ones grow or shrink, whether they line wrap onto multiple lines or not.

And it's always with this lens of a single dimension, and it can be either. You can also

have a flex column where things are laid out top to bottom, but you're always thinking in terms of

how am I controlling these items along this primary axis, and then like as almost a secondary

thought, you can think like how do they move in the cross axis? How do they move in the opposite

direction? But it's really primarily about laying things out in a straight line in either direction.

Now, Flexbox is an incredibly vast addition to the language. There are all kinds of obscure

properties and things you can do with it. There are entire courses that exist just to cover

Flexbox, and because this is only one module of many, we're not going to go that comprehensive.

Instead, I want to focus on the practical things I use it for in my day-to-day development.

As it turns out, I actually do use a pretty good chunk of the API,

but we're not going to explore every nook and cranny and be totally comprehensive.

Ultimately, I think this is probably a good thing because it's just one tool in our toolbox,

and we're going to see the most practical, most useful things we can do with it.

One of the most common questions I've gotten is when should I use Flexbox and when should I use

CSS Grid? There's a related question, which is now that CSS Grid has pretty good browser support,

has it made Flexbox obsolete? Should I even bother learning Flexbox? My answer to this is that

Flexbox is as relevant as ever. It's a great tool, and one that I still use probably even

more than I use CSS Grid. The truth is that they're different tools for different jobs,

and it has to do with the number of dimensions we care about. If we are aligning things in a

two-dimensional grid, imagine you have a header and a sidebar and a main content area, maybe an

ad block and a footer. When you have specific chunks of two-dimensional blocks that you want,

this is very, very much Grid's strong suit. Grid is very good, and we're going to see this in a

future module, very good at putting things in specific boxes. Flexbox is always thinking in

terms of one dimension, so if you have a nav with a bunch of individual items, if you have a vertical

column with a bunch of stuff that you want to have control spacing and alignment, Flexbox is

wonderful in these situations and it's not going anywhere. The other thing about Flexbox that makes

it compelling is that it has universal browser support. It exists pretty much everywhere,

including Internet Explorer 9 and 10 and 11, and CSS Grid is never coming to that browser, right?

They've stopped working on Internet Explorer. Microsoft isn't maintaining Internet Explorer,

so while that's going to be less and less a priority going forward, and honestly for myself,

I've stopped supporting Internet Explorer years ago, for folks who still have to support it to

some degree, it can be useful to have Flex in those situations. It's not going to be able to

do exactly what you do with Grid, but ultimately our goal should never be to have identical

experiences across browsers, but rather to have good experiences across browsers. So we have a

whole module to talk about all of the fun stuff with Flexbox. Before we get started, I want to

just at a very high level talk about what it is and what it does. So I have an example here.

I have an unordered list with three items, and I've applied DisplayFlex to the wrapper. I've also

just given, I mean we can even just remove this to see what it does. I didn't like how stuck together

everything was, so I threw a bit of margin in just to make things a little bit nicer.

And as I mentioned, Flexbox is a different layout mode. Technically it's called the flexible box

layout, and the thing that's a little bit interesting about this is you apply the property

to an element, and you're not changing that element's layout mode, you're changing its

children's layout mode. So this wrapper element is still being arranged in flow layout. It's still

a block level element because it's an unordered list. It's going to be greedy. It's going to take

up all of the available horizontal space, right? All of the rules that we've learned still apply

to wrapper. But then what happens inside wrapper changes? And specifically in this case, you'll

notice I have these individual items, right? List items tend to be block level elements,

but they're all sitting right beside each other, aside from the margin that I mentioned.

So this is the first thing that we have to recognize, is that an element always exists

in one layout mode and no more, right? Block level elements are greedy and will fill the

available horizontal space when you are in flow layout, but if you take that same element and drop

it into a flex container, that element is now being positioned according to the flexible box layout,

and it changes how things work. So that's just one thing to keep in mind, that these layout modes

are mutually exclusive, and that with Flexbox, applying display flex affects its children's

layout mode and not its own layout mode.
