So in the last lesson, we saw how flex grow allows you to take additional space like this empty space

over here and distribute it between the children. So for example, if I grab this first child and I

give it flex grow one, it's going to receive all of that extra space and grow accordingly.

If I give this other child, right, its sibling, let's also give it flex grow one. Well now these

two children are sharing that space evenly, but they're not exactly the same size, right? Like this

one is, let's check, 205 pixels. This one is 227, right? It's 20 something pixels larger and that's

because the content is actually bigger. But what if we wanted these two columns to be the exact same

size? And really this is a much more common situation where you'll have one column that has

a whole bunch of stuff and another column that doesn't have very much and you want them both to

take up an equal amount of space. In this case, this column is so big that flex grow doesn't do

anything, right? If I set flex grow to one, no effect because there is no extra space.

If you've been using Flexbox for a while or if you've even followed a couple tutorials,

you probably know that the way to do this is flex one. And if I apply that to both of these columns,

let's give them both flex one, we get what we expect, which is this column is going to be

361 pixels, this column is going to be 361 pixels. But what is this shorthand? What is flex one? I

think a lot of people think that it's just a shorthand for flex grow, but we've seen that

that's not true, right? Because flex grow doesn't do anything in this situation. And this is probably

one of the most misunderstood things about Flexbox. And honestly, it's a shame because it's a really,

really cool thing. Just to jump into how it works, let's let's reconstruct this without

the shorthand. So I'm going to go and say flex grow one, and I'm going to do the same thing on

its sibling. Flex grow one. Now, what do you suppose happens if I set both of them to have

a width of zero pixels? So I'm going to say width, zero pixels, and that makes it shrink

to almost nothing, right? Other than its padding. If I get rid of its padding,

it completely disappears because it's zero pixels wide, which makes sense. But now I'm going to come

to this one, and I'm also going to say width, zero pixels. And now I get that effect of them

taking up an even amount of space. I think it would be interesting if you want to pause the video and

just think about this for like 30 seconds. See if you can puzzle out why setting width zero has this

effect. This is me giving you time to pause. Okay, the reason that this works is because

width controls the hypothetical size, right? Remember we talked about there's this hypothetical

size. If they're both set to zero pixels, then all of the space is available space, right? Because

this one is zero pixels wide, and then this one is zero pixels wide. In the hypothetical,

which means that we have 100% of the space is available, and then flex grow takes half of that

space for each child, right? So by setting width zero, and actually what the flex shorthand actually

does is flex basis, which again is the same thing. It allows it to consume half of the available

space, and it makes all of the space available. So it's really kind of a clever workaround. And

honestly, this is the way that this property is used. That's why the shorthand is so omnipresent,

because this is the behavior we usually want on the web. But I think it's important to know

that it's not the default behavior of flex grow, right? The mechanism works differently,

and this is kind of a workaround to get it to do this thing. But that dissonance between what

most people think flex grow does and what it actually does is the source of a lot of confusion.

So I know that we've taken kind of a roundabout way to get here, right? The whole last lesson was

really just like going down this road of having everything be proportional, even though that's not

how we usually use it. But I hope you'll agree that it's a worthwhile journey to take, because

now hopefully you have a much deeper understanding of how all these properties work.

And the specification actually recommends that people use the shorthand. So going forward,

we're going to use flex as a shorthand rather than flex grow and flex shrink, because it does

do the basis management automatically. When you say flex one, what you're actually saying is flex

grow one, flex shrink, I think is one as well, and then flex basis zero pixels. There's a graphic

that I found in the flexbox documentation that explains this really well, which is,

if you set flex basis to zero, it distributes all of the space. So if this one is flex grow one,

this one is flex grow one, this one is flex grow two, then you see there's four equal chunks,

and this one gets two of them. If you set flex basis to auto, which is the default value if you

don't use the flex shorthand, then it's only distributing the extra space. So this short one

is getting twice as much of the extra space, but you'll see that this element is almost the

same size as this one, even though its flex grow is twice as big. So that's the important takeaway,

hopefully it makes sense, and I'll let you go on to the exercises.
