So I do hope, dear students, that you can forgive me for the absolute plethora of cat references in

this course. I happen to be a cat person and as a result I can't help myself. I know not everybody

is a cat person. I promise I'll try and squeeze in some dog ones at some point.

But in this exercise we have what appears to be a newspaper written by cats, where we have an image,

a headline, a little summary, and we have three of them. And right off the bat things are not

so great in terms of the UI. The biggest problem that I see is that the image is so large that

it's causing a page-wide overflow. So let's take a look at this markup and see if we can figure out

what's going on here. So we have a main which includes articles. There are three of them,

right? This is kind of the container for each individual article. And I guess a good place

to start would be to fix the images. So I'm going to target all images inside articles and I'm going

to say width should be 100%. It doesn't solve all our problems but it solves a big one. Of course

now we have a new problem which is these images get absolutely enormous but that I think we can

solve with some flexbox. So let's say that we're going to add a style on main and I'm going to set

display flex. And just like that we've kind of made pretty good progress where we have three columns

that are side by side. Everything fits. There's no overflow but of course the problem is that they

are asymmetric. This one is way too narrow for example. And this happens because the content is

different sizes, right? It's there isn't enough space to fit it because each of these columns

is pretty big so it has to shrink them and then it shrinks them according to their intrinsic sizes.

If we want them to be evenly sized well that's where our new flex shorthand comes in. So let's

target all articles and I'm going to say flex one. To summarize what's going on here and why this

works, right? If we had imagined setting flex grow to one it wouldn't solve our problem. We

would still have our asymmetric columns and the reason for that is that there is no free space

to distribute. If we set flex one it has the effect of essentially resetting all of their

widths to zero pixels taking a look at how much space is in the container and then distributing

the total space between these three columns. It's also worth noting that our images kind of just

scale perfectly and the reason that happens is that we added this line up here. If I get rid of

this well now we have a problem because all of the images have their own intrinsic sizes that are

quite big in most cases. We want the image to scale with the column and the column to be scaled

based on the parent. So we add this little tag and all of our columns work properly.
