So in the last exercise in the last lesson, we built this Facebook style layout. I do, by the way,

really recommend watching the video for the solution, even if you solved it on your own,

because it's a really valuable video. But in that video, we added these flex basis properties in

order to set hypothetical sizes so that when the window gets smaller than this, we first enlarge

the sidebar and then eventually once we can't fit the purple area, it shrinks exclusively from that

purple container. There's a subtle thing that we can do that breaks this, and I think it's worth

really talking about because I've made this mistake so many times. And the mistake is,

what if I change this flex basis to width? Well, we can see that it changes what happens and it

breaks our solution. In fact, it makes it so that this sidebar is really big. But that's weird,

right? Like we talked about how in a flex row, width and flex basis do exactly the same thing.

So shouldn't I be able to use them interchangeably like this?

Well, what's actually happening here is we are setting a flex basis. And remember,

if we have a flex basis, it will always win in a battle against width. And the reason for that is

that we have this flex shorthand. Remember that the flex shorthand sets all three properties. It

sets flex grow to be whatever the number is, in this case, one. It sets flex shrink to be one.

And then it sets flex basis to be zero pixels. And the order doesn't matter, right? It doesn't

matter that the width comes later. Flex basis, when defined, will always win over width. So it's

as if we don't have this property, right? This property has no effect right now because it's

being overwritten by flex basis. Without that property, we're back in the realm of flex grow

because the hypothetical size of this element is zero, right? That's what we're setting it to right

over here. And the hypothetical size of this one is 250. So the total size of all elements is 250

pixels. And because we have much more than 250 pixels in this container, we're back in the realm

of flex grow, where because this one is set to grow, it's going to consume all the extra space.

That's why it's the only one growing. And this one can sit comfortably at its hypothetical size.

I believe this is one of the reasons that the specification strongly encourages using the flex

shorthand, right? Like actually writing all of this stuff out and using flex basis instead of

width or height so that you never have these issues, these very, very subtle conflicts,

whether it's overwriting it. And I'll do the same thing up here. I'll set flex to be zero,

999999 and 250. And then I'll get rid of these ones. And by doing it this way,

we conform to that best practice. It ultimately works exactly the same way, right? Like we haven't

changed the functionality, but by defining it kind of all in one shorthand like this and not

using width or height, we avoid this whole class of possible issues.
