There are many adjectives you could use to describe me, like sophisticated, charming, suave, debonair,

but hopefully a liar isn't one of them, and true to my word, for this exercise we have swapped from cats to dogs,

and now we have a doggy newspaper to work with.

So looking at what we have here in terms of the markup, we have articles that house images with headings and paragraphs.

Honestly, it's quite similar to our cat newspaper exercise, and we've put them in a flex container,

and we've also taken the liberty of doing with 100% on the images, and that's just a matter of, without that,

the images will be whatever their intrinsic size is, which makes them quite large indeed.

And they're all kind of different sizes right now, right, because they're all shrinking relatively.

So let's start by adding flex one, because I want them all to be equal sized columns.

But when I do this, right, when they get smaller and smaller, eventually we hit a point where they don't fit anymore, right,

because this, so this rightmost one has a minimum content equal to the length of the word outdoors at this font size.

It can't shrink anymore while still respecting the padding.

And eventually they all hit their min size, and then we're left with this horizontal scroll bar because they overflow.

So the fundamental benefit to flex wrapping is to be able to avoid this situation.

So I'm going to set flex wrap to wrap, and when I do that, not much changes on the surface.

But once we hit a point where it wouldn't fit anymore, right, when we hit its minimum size and it would start to overflow,

it pushes the last child onto its own line.

And this will keep happening if I get smaller and smaller, right.

So that's cool. But honestly, is this the best user experience, right, having these really, really narrow columns?

Well, not really. So there's a few ways we can deal with that.

One way is to just set a flex basis that isn't zero pixels, right.

Like right now, the basis, the hypothetical size is zero.

So why don't we change that instead of being flex one, we'll say, I don't know, 250 pixels.

And so now what's happening is when an element would shrink below 250 pixels, it line wraps.

And this, now that I see it, it's kind of a big number. So let's make it more like 150.

And yeah, that seems OK. Right. It's cool that we have this control.

So that seems good. It's a little weird that the bottom one gets so much bigger, right,

because we have flex grow set to one and this bottom one doesn't have any sibling.

So it has all this extra space because the spacing happens on kind of a per row basis.

So this other one in its own column, it's not going to automatically stay the same size, right.

They're all growing as much as they can.

So unfortunately, there isn't like a perfect solution that I know of to this,

but we can make it a little bit more manageable by setting a max width.

So if I set it, say, to 250, well, it's not going to grow out of control anymore.

Of course, it is going to be a little bit asymmetrical because it is a different size.

So to briefly summarize how flex wrap works, essentially, we set a default hypothetical size.

And when an item falls below that size, it'll force it to line wrap.

If you have flex wrap set to wrap, you can also set a max width so that when an item wraps,

it won't grow to fill the entire column.
