So this exercise feels a little bit like an anomaly to me, where all the other stuff we've

been doing with Flexbox involves flexibility, right? It involves items that are growing or

shrinking. In this one we have these three cards that really just kind of keep the same size,

and the way that they solve the challenge of fitting into different viewports is through

wrapping and positioning with being centered in that. So we can start by giving our items

a flex grow of zero, because we don't really want them to grow, and a flex shrink of zero,

and then it all comes down to the flex basis, and I'm just going to pick a number, let's say 100

pixels. When I do that, we have these three columns that are cemented in place, and they are not going

to do anything, right? Like if the container is too small, they're just going to overflow.

They are very much rooted in place, and we don't want that. So, and I also can kind of tell that

they're a little bit narrow, so let's make them wider, and then let's set flex wrap to wrap,

and when I do that, when they don't fit in the container, they just move to the next line.

We've essentially reconstructed inline block items, right? Because that's how inline block

kind of works, but there's one thing missing, and it has to do with centering. So let's say

that we want justify content to be center. When I do that, we have this nice little tiling effect,

right? Where you get this inverted triangle, upside down pyramid, and then if you shrink

below that, they all just stack individually. That works. I do think that one small improvement

that isn't really pictured in the video above is maybe we should allow them to shrink, but only

when they've reached their final position being in a column. So let's change flex shrink to one,

and when I do that, everything behaves the same, like in the general size, right? Where you have

either a single row or two rows or three rows, but then if you get really, really narrow,

the items will squeeze a little bit.
