So in an earlier lesson we talked about how justify content can be used to control the

distribution of items along its primary axis, but honestly this control feels pretty coarse to me.

It doesn't give us a lot of like fine-tuned control over the placement of individual items,

and I'll show you a situation where it doesn't really work.

So I have, you can imagine, a site header over here that has three children,

it has the site logo, and then it has two buttons, and what I want is for these two buttons to move

to the opposite end, and the way that I would have solved this for a long time is I would have

wrapped the two buttons in its own element, because if I do this, I've effectively reduced

a three-child flex wrapper to a two-child flex wrapper, and then I can use justify content

space between, and honestly this works, it's just not the ideal solution because it clutters

our markup, and not that that's the end of the world, but it would be nicer if the markup didn't

have to have these extra divs just for flexbox stuff, and it turns out there is actually a way

we can do this, and that way is to pull a trick out of our hat that we last saw a couple modules

ago, and that trick is auto margin. So on my logo, this element here, I'm going to add a margin

right, and I'm going to set it to auto. The last time we saw auto margins, they were used to center

an item, and the reason that worked, right, is if you set margin left auto and margin right auto,

it's like a greedy value, so it's going to eat up all the extra space, and as a result of doing

that, it kind of forces the item into the center. It's a very similar mechanism here, where we're

saying margin right auto, and auto is a greedy value, so it consumes all of the extra space

in this flex container, and puts that into its right margin. This isn't like a happy coincidence,

either, it's not that this just happens to work, this is actually in the flexbox specification,

and it's how the language authors wanted you to solve this problem. So this is actually a

really nice solution to this problem, and it's something that a lot of folks just don't know,

I didn't know about it for the longest time. So I feel good about this, but I have one other

challenge I want to address in this little problem, which is my two buttons that are sitting over here

now, they're all smushed together, right, they're uncomfortably close to each other. What if I want

to add like eight pixels of space between them? So there is a new property that can help us with

this situation, and it's called gap. So I'm going to set a gap of eight pixels, and when I do that,

what it does is it adds a gutter between each flex child. Crucially, it only adds them between

children, so it's not going to add it kind of on the outside edges, which makes this a really,

really great tool, but it does have a drawback. And that drawback is that it's a little bit too

new for its own good. This is pretty cutting edge stuff, at least at the time that I'm recording

this, February 2021. It exists in most major browsers, but it's not yet in Safari. It has

been included in their technical preview, so it should come any day now. It doesn't exist yet,

though. It also doesn't exist in Internet Explorer, and unfortunately, it's never coming

to Internet Explorer. Before abandoning this entirely, I think it's worth considering what

it means to support Internet Explorer. I think in many cases, it's actually all right if your

buttons are uncomfortably close to each other in an older browser, right? Browser support doesn't

necessarily mean that every browser has to be identical in appearance, it just means that it

has to work. So I actually think there are cases where you can use this even if you need IE support,

but let's also look at an alternative if you really just, you have to have consistent spacing.

So looking at the kind of the situation that I have here, it occurs to me that we can use margin

for this as well. So in these off buttons, what I'm going to do is I'm going to say margin left

eight pixels, because that adds margin kind of right over here, and it adds margin right over

here, which doesn't really affect us at this size, but we can imagine that being useful

when it gets a little bit smaller. So that's useful, but of course, it can be tricky because

maybe this component is defined in another file without easy style access. I'll leave one more

little trick you can use in certain situations as well, and that's to use a spacer component.

So I'm going to add say spacer here with a size of eight, and the idea is you would define this

as a component that would then set this value to be say a min width, and I can just do like a very,

very quick version of that. I'll do it just with styled components, even though it can be worth

making this an actual component, make it a styled div, and I'm going to set the min width to be

props dot size pixels. When I do that, and when I get rid of my old margin, we can see that this

little tiny div is just eight pixels wide, and I use min width for the very specific reason that

I don't want it to shrink if we run out of space because I think that the spacing should be consistent.
