So in this exercise, our goal is to improve the tab ordering so that people who use a keyboard to

navigate have an easier time of it. And it's kind of a fun exercise because we're not changing

anything visually, we're just trying to like enhance the usability a bit. So the way that I

like to test this is you can start by double clicking this result to make sure that something

is focused just outside this iframe and then when you press tab it'll move into the iframe

and go through the items in order so you can keep pressing tab and it'll go through them one by one.

I should say that like the way that I would normally do this is if you start by selecting

the address bar and press tab it'll move you into the document in much the same way but because

in this kind of artificial playground environment we have this iframe you get best results by

starting by selecting the word result and then tapping through. And when I do that we notice

that it starts by grabbing this first link and then this link right we're moving through the

article's content and then eventually we get to the table of contents but that doesn't do you a

lot of good when you've already made it through the entire article. So there are a couple of ways

we can do that and one of the ways that we haven't talked about but maybe you're familiar with

is the tab index property. So I can come over here and say tab index equals one

and do the same thing for these and essentially what I've done then is I've prescribed a specific

tab order so that when I repeat the process well we go through this one because it's had its number

one then this one is tab index two then three and then it goes through all the other ones that don't

have an assigned tab index order. So this it solves the problem but it feels a little clunky to me and

in fact it's it's generally advised not to do this. The reason is that it becomes a maintenance burden

where it almost it's like z-index right like you have the same problem of these ever increasing

numbers it's hard to manage it's easy to make mistakes and to actually make the experience much

worse. The only time you should be setting a tab index is if you're going to set it to negative one

and when you set it to negative one it essentially removes that item from the tab index so now I

actually I can't can't select this first heading. You may think why on earth would you want to do

that? Well there are rare cases where that is a desirable thing. One example might be if you have

like a thing you want to be clickable but it really should only be clickable maybe it's just

like a fun little whimsical flourish that doesn't really make sense for keyboard navigators.

In rare cases like that it can make sense to explicitly remove something from the tab index

but the general wisdom goes that you should never set it to a positive number. So then how do we

solve this problem if we're not using tab index? Well the other way that this works is by using

DOM order. It really is quite a lot like z-index so let's grab this aside and let's pick it up

and move it to above the main. Of course when I do this we have this unfortunate side effect of

now we've flipped the visual presentation but it does solve our problem right? If I tab through

them it goes through them in exactly the order I want. So we can kind of flip the visual order

back to what it was using flex direction. So I'm going to set it to row reverse and when I do that

it has the effect of bringing us back to where we were at the beginning but preserving that

modified tab order where it goes through the table of contents first. In some cases you may

notice that the alignment shifts like things move to the right instead of the left but that

only happens when you have available space and because our main element is set to grow

there isn't any available space so we don't have to worry about that here.
