So of all the exercises we've worked through together at this point, and there has been

quite a few of them, I think this is one of my all-time favorites. And the reason I like it so

much is that it really shows the benefit of getting a deep intuition for multiple layout modes in CSS,

because when you hit the limitation of one mode, you can leverage another mode to solve what would

otherwise be an impossible challenge. And this is indeed a very hard challenge. So let me first say

that if you struggled with this one, that is absolutely okay. In fact, it's a good thing,

because the struggle that you went through trying to solve this will actually increase the

likelihood that you remember the solution that we're about to go through. It makes it stickier,

and it means that long term, you'll have a much deeper understanding of the language.

So whenever you find yourself getting frustrated or feeling like it's hard,

just know that that is actually a very good sign that you are learning. When things are easy and

you're not having any trouble, you're not actually learning that much. So just a good thing to keep

in mind. And now let's talk about why this is such a challenging problem. So our goal with this

challenge is to make it so that this first column dictates the height of the overall container and

the parent, right, this pink border will shrink to fit the height of that first column. The second

column will kind of grow to fit, right? It'll be as tall as it needs to to match the first column.

But since we won't be able to fit everything, it'll show an overflow. And I think it's a natural

first instinct to say something like, well, maybe I can tell the parent to just disregard the height

of this column, right? Have this column grow to fit the height of the parent. And maybe you'll do

something like where you'll say call last of type, get that second column exclusively and say height

100%. And it would be great if this worked, but it doesn't. And the reason for that is the way

the flex algorithm works, right? The parent is looking to its children to see how tall each of

them are in turn, and then it'll grow to fit the tallest and then it'll cause all of the ones that

aren't the tallest to stretch to fill the available space. So we have another one of those

module one recursive impossible situations again, where we have a child asking its parent for the

height and the parent asking its child for its height. So we can't do that, but we can do something

kind of similar, which is what if I say the height should be zero pixels? Well, it looks kind of like

it works, right, in terms of like our first column over here is dictating the height of the container.

But if we inspect it in the browser tools, we'll see that we actually have a bit of a problem here.

Our second column is just the height of its padding. It's only 32 pixels tall. And so if I

was then to say overflow auto, well, now we have a very, very tiny column indeed doesn't really help

us, right? But what if I took that overflow auto and I moved it to the parent? Well, now it looks

right, like it looks perfect. But then when I start scrolling, it all kind of falls apart.

And it makes sense that both of the columns are scrolling away because I put overflow auto on the

parent. And so as I scroll one of the columns, they both move up. And this is where the whole

leveraging other layout modes things comes in. Because having a single column kind of float and

stay stuck in place while the rest of it scrolls. Well, that sounds a lot like position sticky,

doesn't it? So what if we target just our first column, first of type, and I can add position

sticky top zero. Now when I start to scroll, this first column stays stuck in place and we only

scroll the second half. And this works even as we change the size of the viewport. We have this kind

of melange of mechanisms working to our advantage here, where we have this list is going to grow as

tall as it needs to, but it's not going to affect the height of the container because we gave it a

height of zero pixels. So the height of the container is dictated by this first column.

But then the whole parent has overflow auto so we can scroll to show the height of the second

column. But then we have sticky positioning on top of that, which locks this column in place.

Now, I know that many folks who are watching this are probably feeling a little discouraged

because all of these mechanisms stacked one on top of the other. Maybe you're thinking something

like you could have given me a thousand years and I never would have come up with that, right? It's

kind of like out of left field. Like how do you even know to think about position sticky? And for

this, I promise you that is a normal and natural part of learning. It's not going to be intuitive

till you have a bunch of practice with it. So as you get more and more deep into this stuff,

and as you work and spend more and more time working with them, eventually you just get this

collections of very, very intuitive tools. And when you encounter a new problem,

like when I saw this problem initially, I had three or four ideas pop into my head

and then realize that like, oh, this idea wouldn't work because of this other constraint.

My initial solution to this was actually different. I initially had this first column.

I set it to have an inner element that was absolutely positioned and that worked as well,

but it was a little bit more complicated. But the point is that as you get more and more experience

with this stuff, you start to just think of solutions automatically just because you have

that level of intuition. And I promise you that you will get there with enough time.

I also think it's worth mentioning that I came up with the kind of two solutions I mentioned,

but that's not to say that those are the only solutions. There's probably many ways that I

didn't think of because those just aren't tools that come intuitively to me. So if you solve this

in a different way, please do share it with me or share it with all of us posted in discord,

because I think it can only help to have the number of tools in our toolbox

grow as we learn tips and techniques from each other.
