So in the very early days of CSS, there was one particular layout that was everywhere,

and really sought after, really common, but also really hard to build in a proper, robust way,

really elusive. And that layout, because of these properties, was called the Holy Grail layout.

It was the layout that was every website was trying to do it and failing in some way,

because the tools of the time made it really hard to do this properly.

And this is what it looked like. It had a header which spanned the entire height,

a footer that needed to be stuck to the bottom of the viewport, and then a main content area

that had three columns, with a navigation unit on the side, an ad unit on the opposite side,

and then all the actual content in the middle. And this image, by the way, is from Wikipedia.

It was such a common layout that there's even a Wikipedia article on the Holy Grail layout,

which is kind of remarkable. And now our goal is to reconstruct that idea using Flexbox.

And there's nothing, I don't think there's any particular issue with this,

but it is just a matter of like stacking those bricks and getting practice with these ideas.

So let's do it. The first thing to make sure is that your markup is structured in a way

where you're able to have kind of two separate flex containers, because we can't really do this

kind of fancy 2D layout with Flexbox. We can with grid, but with Flexbox, we can only have a row

or a column, right? In this case, we have a column that has three children, header, all of this main

stuff and footer. And then all of this main stuff is a row with three columns. So the first thing to

make sure is that the markup is structured correctly. And in this case, it is. So let's

start with doing our outer container. So I'm going to say that our parent wrapper should have display

flex. It should, however, have a flex direction of column. And we also want to make sure that it

spans the entire height of the viewport. And we could do this with the HTML body height 100% thing.

I'm going to do it using viewport units, which I know we've discussed have their own tradeoffs,

especially on mobile. But feel free to substitute your own solution for that problem. Next, I want

to start dealing with the fact that this kind of section needs to grow, right? Because nothing

really looks different. And it's because this flex column has a justify content of flex start, right?

If I really wanted to, I could say justify content center, and then all of the things would move.

But what I want really is for the header to say at the top, the footer to say at the bottom,

and the main content area to stretch. So let us then go to our middle element, and let's say flex

one. And when I do that, happily enough, our main content area now spans to force the footer to sit

at the bottom. But we also want this middle element to be a flex container of its own. So we'll say

display flex. And similarly to last time now, we have our three children that are stacked at the

front of the container, right? It's the left side because we have a row, just like it was the top

when we had our column. So let's reach into that row, and let's grab main, and let's give it flex

one. The problem wasn't actually specific in terms of should these sidebars have a specific

minimum size or proportion. I suppose the right thing to do in this case would be to use proportion.

So maybe we'll say that our nav and our aside each take up one-fifth of the total space,

and this middle column takes up three-fifths. Regardless, though, we've had enough practice

with that particular problem. And this is our holy grail layout.
