So, for a very long time, I earnestly believed that you couldn't use sticky positioning within a flex container.

And I believed that because whenever I tried to use it, it never seemed to work.

But it turns out I was just falling into a very common trap.

I was making a mistake that is very easy to mistake.

And I have an example of that mistake kind of set out over here.

So we can look at what's going on. I have a section class wrapper, which is a flex row.

It has two columns. It has our navigation on the left and our main on the right with all these ridiculous photos.

On the nav, I have already set position sticky top zero.

And yet, when I scroll, the nav doesn't stick, right?

So this on its face seems to suggest that sticky positioning doesn't work with Flexbox.

But I think it's helpful if we add a border to this nav.

So I'm going to say border solid deep pink.

And what we notice is that the border on this navigation runs all the way to the bottom of the container.

And this actually does kind of make sense when you remember that the default value for a line items is stretch, right?

So when you have two siblings in a flex container, it stretches the shortest one.

In this case, the navigation is much shorter.

And then we remember that a sticky positioned element can only move within the scope of its parent container.

And in this case, it has no wiggle room, right?

It's already the full height of its parent, so there's no way for it to move up and down.

We can change this. Like, what if we set our wrapper to have a line items of flex start?

Well, when I do that, you see that our border shrinks to much more tightly surround the content.

And then when I start scrolling, it sticks because now there's all of this wiggle room, there's all of this play.

So that's really just the issue, right?

It's by default, things will stretch and a stretched item has no room to be stuck.

We can also like this feels like maybe a little bit of a heavy handed approach.

You can imagine maybe if we had three or four columns, we wouldn't want to align all of them.

So instead, we could use align self flex start so that we're only controlling the item that we want to stick.
