Well, we've reached the end of another module, which means that it's time for a workshop.

And I know I say this at the start of every workshop, but I really think this one is

particularly exciting and will be a good experience. We're going to build a sneaker store,

and I've taken a lot of inspiration from real-world e-commerce sites because I feel

like a lot of them actually do a lot of really interesting subtle layout work with like flexible

elements. It's the perfect playground to really get some practice in with Flexbox.

So this is the thing that we're going to be building. There is a README, and I hope it's

self-explanatory enough that I don't really have to go into that much detail here, but I wanted to

give you a couple pieces of context just to make it easier to get started and fill in some things

that I think are worth mentioning. The first thing is the Figma that we're going to use for this

also includes a mobile design, and this may be a little confusing because the README doesn't

make any mention of a mobile site. The reason for that is that we will be revisiting this project

in the next module, so we're not going to be touching the mobile side right now, but we will

get to it in a bit. That said, there is still a little bit of responsive work to do around this

shoe grid, so there's still a bit of responsive thinking required. The next thing I want to mention,

this is what the project looks like when you clone it locally. It's a React application,

and you may notice right off the bat that there are these like pre-done elements like the sorting

and the filtering and the searching, but when you start actually trying to use them, they don't do

anything. And this is not that you've done something wrong or there's something missing,

it's just a matter of, you know, we're focusing on the design and the user interface and all of

the CSS stuff that the JavaScript behavior just seems out of scope and not really worth the time

to implement. So it's nothing wrong, it's nothing to worry about, just that's the way that it is.

And the last thing I wanted to mention was, you know, you may look at this and say,

okay, the layout is a bit of a mess, and I can see the work that I'm going to have to do there,

but this is really further along than you were expecting, right? This isn't a blank canvas where

you're going to build everything from scratch. If you are feeling that way, and if that bothers you,

like if you would rather start with a blank canvas, please be encouraged to do that. In fact,

I've left some instructions in the readme for how you would access the assets, like the images and

the fonts, because I think that would be a great idea and a great chance to practice with everything

we've learned so far and not just Flexbox. At the same time, though, I recognize that not everyone

has the time to do that, and because this is a React application, I didn't want to lean too

heavily into that. I didn't want people to have to know how to build a React application from

scratch. So, depending on your circumstance, highly recommended to do that, but otherwise,

of course, it's just still really valuable to focus on the exercises included, which have you

do all the Flexbox stuff, but give you the other pieces so that you don't have to spend a bunch of

time implementing that stuff from scratch. I think that's all of the housekeeping I had,

so I will let you get started. Please enjoy this one. I think it'll be a lot of fun,

and I'll see you in the solution videos.
