All right, so our fiercest challenge yet is to create a responsive navigation menu that

should stack differently depending on the screen size and just look good no matter what

the context is.

And we have some basic guidance here from the fact that these comments are laid out

the way they are.

So we have our mobile styles by default and then we're given the media query.

This incidentally is kind of a weird size, but it works in the context of this playground.

We probably want this to be a bit bigger because most mobile devices are bigger than 300 pixels

anyway.

Okay, so I'm going to start by adding some styles on our unordered list.

We're going to say that it should be display flex and then because on mobile we want them

to stack in a column, we need to switch the flex direction.

Set this to column and now we're kind of right back where we started, right?

Because in a column, individual flex items behave quite a lot like block elements do

in flow, except now we've opened up the whole world of magical flexbox properties and we're

going to take advantage of those.

I'm going to say align items center.

Reason for this is that column, our primary axis is top down, our cross axis is left right

and I want them to be horizontally centered.

So that's the property that I need.

I also, and this isn't strictly part of it, but it's a nice thing to do.

Let's also give our anchor tag a bit more padding and we have to change it to display

block so that it takes that padding.

There is a kind of a mini flex lesson here, which is the flex layout mode is not recursive.

So I'm adding the flexbox styles to the unordered list, which means that the list items are

rendered using flex layout, but any children of those list items like our anchor tags are

just regular flow elements.

And an anchor tag by default is in line, which means that padding wouldn't affect the vertical

direction.

And the reason I want to add padding is to give myself a bit more space between the units,

but also to do so in a way that increases the tap size because I could have done this

on the list item, right?

It would have essentially the same effect, but now I can't click this area over here.

Whereas if I make it the anchor tag, all of this is clickable depending on your circumstance.

Like actually, the best thing would probably be to add a little bit in both.

Like maybe let's make them four each or something.

That way we still have, you know, we don't necessarily want the links to be touching,

but we do want to increase the tap size to whatever whatever seems reasonable in your

own experience.

You can pull it up on a phone and try it and try to like slightly miss and make sure that

it still does what you expect.

But okay, I'm getting wildly off topic.

We have a mobile UI now that seems pretty good to me.

So let's shift gears to the desktop variant.

I'm going to add some styles on that same unordered list.

And the first thing I'm going to do is flip the flex direction so that it's back to row,

which is the default value, because I don't want them to stack that way on desktop.

Now we see that things are looking okay, but I want them to be kind of spaced apart.

And that means we have to find the right justify content for this situation.

And you know, you could experiment with them.

So I'm going to start with space evenly and see how that feels.

And this to me feels pretty good.

And the cool thing is once I get to a certain size, right, once a 300 pixel threshold is

met, they collapse automatically to stack vertically, which I always just think feels

so cool.

It may strike folks as curious that I added this align item center on mobile and I haven't

undone it on desktop.

Ultimately, when we're on desktop, there isn't really any cross axis play.

So it doesn't really have any effect.

If it bothers you, you can get rid of it.

You could say align items initial, but in my mind, it doesn't really hurt anything.

And if we ever do give our nav a specific height, we probably do want them to be centered.

So ultimately, this is a pretty good option, even though it doesn't have any practical

impact right now.
