So this one's kind of fun. Our goal is to construct a chat UI, like you might find an iMessage or

whatever, and we have a list of messages. It's represented here in the HTML with an ol tag,

ordered list, which may strike some folks as a bit curious. Ultimately though, I think it's the

right approach, because even though we don't see any numbers, it is still an ordered list, right?

If we shuffled the order, then the conversation wouldn't be coherent, so I think semantically

we're on solid ground. We also have these classes we can use to tell whether it should be

from us or to us, right? The blue ones are from us, and they have this sent class. I also recognize

that if we were doing this in React or another component framework, this would look a little

different. Ultimately, I chose to do it this way, just because we're focusing on the underlying

concepts in a little bit. We'll see how this works with components. To get started, I want

to start by grabbing our ol, and let's start by setting display flex and flex direction

column. That doesn't appear to do very much. It just kind of puts us back to where we were,

but of course now we can start taking advantage of other flex properties. We have a choice to

make, and honestly, I don't think the decision is super important. We have to figure out whether

we want to push everything to the end and then pull sent or, sorry, received messages to the front,

or keep everything as it is and then just pull our own sent messages to the right.

Let's do that one. Honestly, it really doesn't make a big difference. I'm going to say that

message sent should have its own styles, and here I'm going to use our new align self property,

and I'm going to say that it should be flex end. This is kind of a cool thing because it kind of

makes sense that if we want some of the items to be on one side, some of them to be on the other

side, and we want to be able to pick on a per item basis, we can set one as the default,

flex start, and then we can just pluck the ones that we want and pull them over to the other side.

So that's what we're doing here. It works pretty great. The only thing remaining,

if we really wanted this to be true to form, we want the messages to be coming from the bottom,

so all of this stuff should be bottom aligned, so we can do that. We spoke about this in a very

recent exercise, but here we've been given the styles that we would otherwise need for HTML

embodied to take up full height, so if I set ol to have height 100%, then it will actually make

it so that our ordered list takes up the full space. With that done, I can set justify content

to flex end. In this case, our primary axis is vertical because this is a column, and so I'm

just saying take all the items and pull them down to the end of the flex container, which just gives

it a little bit more authenticity in terms of a chat application.
