So once again, we're looking at one of these flex demonstration units, but this time I've changed

something. I've made it so that every item has multiple words inside. And at first, this doesn't

really seem to have any bearing, right? It doesn't have any consequence. The items are still aligned

so that they're at the start of the primary axis and they're stretched across the cross axis.

But check out what happens as I start to shrink this container. Once you hit a point where there

isn't any more free space, they all start to shrink. And they all start to shrink kind of

proportionally to a point, right? You hit this moment and now it starts to overflow and it'll

keep overflowing as I get smaller and smaller. But why? Why is it doing this? Why did it choose

that exact moment? Well, it has to do with the fact that with Flexbox, there's this idea of a

minimum size. And by default, it's equivalent to if you had set width min content, right? The idea

is that in each of these columns, there is a minimum size based on the longest word.

So when this one contains, it's the longest word, I should also say all of these elements have

padding. So if I remove the padding, you'll see that it really is like, it stops stretching when

there really is no more space to hide, right? Like the, it doesn't want the content to overflow.

So if it was to get any smaller, this exclamation point would be hanging out inside this other

child, doesn't want to do that. So I think it's really important. And this is like foundational

to Flexbox to understand that there are two sizes that come into play when controlling the

distribution of space. There's this minimum size, the lowest, the smallest it can get before things

don't fit anymore, right? It would overflow the contents. But then there's this other size

and it's, you can think of it as like the default size. The Flexbox specification calls this the

hypothetical size, which I kind of love. It's the idea that like this is the size that it would be

if it's not being acted upon by any other forces. And I'm going to put my padding back just to

think it feels nicer. So let's start by, what do you suppose happens if we give one of these items

a width? So let's pick this item over here. It has a hypothetical size of 149.75 pixels.

And I'm going to say that this one and only this one at the end should have a width of 200 pixels.

Well, when I do that, sure enough, it does grow to be 200 pixels exactly. But it does this because

there's all this extra space. So it has no problem for where it's going to get those extra 50.25

pixels from. But what do you suppose happens if it doesn't have that space? Well, what we can notice

is now it's 181 pixels. It is shrinking. It's not actually respecting this bound that we set. So

that's one thing that's important to note is that width and height, they're not hard rules in

Flexbox. They're more like suggestions. They're saying this is what the hypothetical width should

be. But I understand if you have to change that based on different constraints. So similarly,

right, it's going to keep shrinking until it can't shrink anymore. And this happens the same across

both axes. So if I switch this to be column, well, the first thing we notice, and let me make this

bigger, is that width is the wrong property to set. Because I don't want to control its width.

I want to control its height. So if I change width to height, we observe much the same behavior,

which is in a world where it has enough space to breathe, it respects the 200 pixels of height.

But then as the height gets smaller and smaller, well, it can't respect that anymore. In this case,

it's a little bit different, right? When it comes to text being, when it comes to flex columns,

the minimum content is the height of the single line. If this was multiple lines,

that height would grow. But other than that one weird caveat, it's the same idea, which is

when you set a height on something, you're setting the hypothetical height, not necessarily

the current height. If you've ever struggled with what the deal with flex basis is, right,

maybe you've heard of this. The idea with flex basis is it's the same thing as width or height,

but agnostic to whichever axis is selected. So if I change height to flex basis, well,

it works exactly the same way as width does when we're in a row, and it works exactly the same way

that height does when we're in a column. So it's just, you could almost think of it as like a

shorthand. It's not entirely accurate, because the other difference is that if I have both a height

and a flex basis, right, let me say that the height is 100 pixels, flex basis always wins.

Even though height comes after flex basis, right, if I didn't have flex basis, it would have an

effect, but on its own, flex basis wins. I know that that's like one of the bigger confusing things,

which is like, what is the difference between width and flex basis? That's really all that it

is. They both serve exactly the same goal, which is to set the hypothetical size of an item. Okay,

so let's go back into a row. And let me remove my flex basis and my height. By the way,

height does have an effect in this case, because flex basis is controlling width. So it is like a

little bit, a little bit funky, but let me remove these properties. And now we're back in our world

where they all have a hypothetical size, which is equal to the size of the content, right, is almost

you can think of it as fit content at this point. But what happens if we want to consume this extra

space? So I'm going to pick the first item and I'm going to give it a flex grow of one. And really

what I've instructed is all of that white space at the end should be absorbed into this first item.

It should consume any additional space. And this overrides its flex basis as well. So if I said

either width or in this case, flex basis of like a hundred pixels, it's actually not really doing

anything because growing is another constraint that overrides flex basis in the same way that

if there isn't enough space, it shrinks. If there's, if it's already being told to do something,

that priority kind of wins out. But here's something interesting. If I shrink this container,

right from all of this point, it's having this effect of consuming all this free space,

right? All of this, this white space at the end is getting absorbed into this. When I have flex grow

one, but then what do you suppose happens if I had flex grow in this case, when there isn't any free

space? Well, the answer is that it doesn't do anything, right? Because flex grow is all about

consuming additional space. And in this case, we don't have any additional space. Another really

common point of confusion around flex box has to do with flex shrink. So let's talk about that

on this first item again, I'm going to set flex shrink of 10. And right away, you notice something

happens there. So notice now flex shrink has no effect in this case, when there is abundant space,

flex shrink is essentially how quickly should one item shrink its hypothetical size when there

isn't enough space for it to have that hypothetical size. So when I set flex shrink to 10, notice how

hello world is shrinking 10 times faster than the other items. And I can make this even more

egregious, right? Let me make it 100,000. Now, it almost seems like these other three items,

they're not shrinking at all. It's only flex world that's shrinking. But check this out. Once I hit

this minimum content, all the other ones start shrinking. And if I make it so small that there

isn't enough space, right, if it overflows, because they're all at their minimum content size,

flex shrink has no effect. So there's a really important high level thing here that I want to

talk about, which is flex shrink only does something when the items are between their

minimum size and their hypothetical size. And flex grow, conversely, only does something when

items are above their hypothetical size, right, when there is an abundance of space so that they

can grow beyond that hypothetical size. Flex shrink has no effect if the items are too small to fit.

And this is I think is one of those really confusing things is you're cranking up the

flex shrink, and the item is still just it's not shrinking. And the answer for that is that the

content can't shrink anymore, right? Shrinking is only about how do I distribute the space

between my minimum content and my hypothetical size. I know that this can be a lot to absorb,

especially if you haven't dealt with these ideas a lot already. So if you're finding that you're

having trouble following or even just understanding the implications of everything we've talked about

in this video, I think it's a good idea to go down, do some of the exercises and then come back

up here and rewatch this video. Because I think that the ideas in this video are like foundational

how flexbox works. And it might take a couple playthroughs for it to all really click. But

it's super important because once it does click, everything else with flexbox just makes a lot more

sense.
